---
title: 2.2 Free Ability List
draft: false
tags:
---
These abilities are the standard things every character will be able to do. 

The attributes listed within each ability are the suggested attributes for using these abilities, but with a sufficient argument, others can be used.

All abilities listed here are able to be used during your turn while you still have available actions.

---

> [!ability-combat-type]+ **Attack** | *{All Attributes}*
> **Reach** | *Melee* - 2 Moves | *Ranged* - 10 Moves
> 
> ***Make an attack, either ranged or melee, depending on your weapon.*** 
> 
> Make a roll with your selected Main Trait/s and beat the enemy's chosen Contest score.
> 
> Deal damage equal to the Main Trait chosen, plus your weapon's damage bonus on a success.
> 
> - **Aggression**: +1 to damage. 
> - **Tenacity**: +1 to next Defend.
> - **Acuity**: +1 to Current Attack. 
> - **Fortitude**: +1 to Next Attack. 
> - **Speech**: -1 to Enemy Attack. 
> - **Silence**: +1 to next Intimidate. 
> - **Rend**: +1 Health on success. 
> - **Will**: +1 to Versatility on a crit Success.

> [!ability-combat-type]+ **Defend** | *{All Attributes}*
> 
> ***Defend against an attack, either ranged or melee.*** 
> 
> Make a roll with your selected Trait/s and beat the enemy's chosen Contest score. 
> 
> Block all damage and push back the attacker 1 Move on a success. Take all damage on a failure. 
>
> - **Aggression**: +1 to next Attack. 
> - **Tenacity**: -1 to damage on next successful enemy attack.
> - **Acuity**: +1 to Current Defend. 
> - **Fortitude**: -1 to next enemy attack. 
> - **Speech**: -1 to current enemy Attack. 
> - **Silence**: +1 to next Defend. 
> - **Rend**: -1 to Enemy's Health on success. 
> - **Will**: +1 to Health on success.

> [!ability-combat-type]+ **Dodge** | *{Might, Psyche}*
> 
>***Avoid all damage and reposition yourself.***
>
>Make a roll with your selected Total attribute to beat the enemies chosen Contest score or the given threshold.
>
>Take no damage and move 1 Move on a success.
>
>Take all damage and do not move on a failure.

> [!ability-combat-type]+ **Parry** | *{All Attributes}*
> ***Defend and counter against someone's attack.***
> 
> Make a roll with your selected Trait/s and beat the enemies chosen Contest score. 
> 
> On a success, deal damage equal to the Main Trait, without weapon or item bonuses, on a success.
> 
> Else, take the damage of the attempted attack.

> [!ability-physical-type]+ **Climb** | *{Might, Psyche}*
> ***Ascend or scale a wall, obstacle, ladder or other such vertical surface.***
> 
> Make a roll with your selected Total attribute, either Might and/or Psyche, and beat the threshold. 
> 
> The Runner will set a threshold to beat, and on a success you make it over.

> [!ability-physical-type]+ **Launch** | *{Might, Psyche}*
> ***Flip, jump, or leap at, over or onto an obstacle or trap.***
> 
> Make a roll with your selected total attribute and beat the threshold set by the Runner.
> 
> On a success, you make it your intended destination.

> [!ability-essence-type]+ **Perceive** | *{Psyche, Soul}*
> ***Use your sight or your feeling to sense something that is somewhat hidden.*** 
> 
> Make a roll with your selected total attribute and beat the threshold, or the enemy's Sneak score.
> 
> The GR will set a threshold to beat, and on a success you see any hidden objects or persons. 

> [!ability-mental-type]+ **Intuit** | *{Psyche, Influence}*
> ***Use your sight and senses to glean information that is being somewhat hidden, or make connections of information from unwhole facts.***
> 
> Make a roll with your selected Trait/s and beat the threshold, or the enemy's Deceive score.
> 
> The GR will set a threshold to beat, and on a success you are able to learn something the target.

> [!ability-social-type]+ **Persuade** | *{All Attributes}*
> ***Convince someone of information that you have, or to do something you need through truthful behaviour or speech.***
> 
> Make a roll with your selected Trait/s and beat the threshold, or the enemy's Rebuke score.
> 
> The GR will either set a general Threshold, or make a contested Rebuke roll.
> 
> Beating either will convince the target of the truthfulness of your intent or information. They may still need further incentive to take more dangerous or risky actions.

> [!ability-social-type]+ **Deceive** | *{All Attributes}*
> ***Convince someone of information that you have, or to do something you need through deceitful behaviour or false speech.***
> 
> Make a roll with your selected Trait/s and beat the threshold, or the enemy's Rebuke score.
> 
> The Runner will either set a general Threshold, or make a contested Rebuke roll.
> 
> Beating either will convince the target of the supposed truthfulness of your intent or information. They may still need further incentive to take more dangerous or risky actions.

> [!ability-social-type]+ **Intimidate** | *{All Attributes}*
> ***Convince someone of information that you have, or to do something you need through threatening behaviour or attacking speech.***
> 
> Make a roll with your selected Trait/s and beat the threshold, or the enemy's Rebuke score.
> 
> The GR will either set a general Threshold, or make a contested Rebuke roll.
> 
> Beating either will convince the target of the truthfulness of your intent or information. They may still need further incentive to take more dangerous or risky actions.

> [!ability-social-type]+ **Rebuke** | *{All Attributes}*
> ***Prevent yourself from being convinced, intimidated or deceived by someone.***
> 
> Using your selected Trait/s, beat the contestant's Persuade, Deceive or Intimidate score, else the effect applies.

> [!ability-buff-type]+ **Aid** | *{All Attributes}*
> **Reach** | *Touch*
> 
> ***Patch up a small physical injury, heal a small magical wound, or keep someone alive when they are incapacitated.*** 
> 
> Make a roll with your selected Total attribute and beat the threshold.
> 
> The GR will set a threshold to beat based on the injuries sustained by the target, and on a success you heal the target by +1 Health.

> [!ability-physical-type]+ **Sprint** | *{Might}*
> ***Does what it says on the tin.***
> 
> Add your selected Trait score to your total Moves, plus any additional effects.
>
> - **Aggression**: +1 extra to total Moves.
> - **Tenacity**: Any movement impairing effects are less effective by half.
> 

> [!ability-essence-type]+ **Sneak** | *{Might, Psyche, Influence}*
> ***Hide from sight while moving or stationary.***
> 
> Make a roll with your selected Trait/s, and beat the selected threshold, or the enemy's Perceive score.
> 
> On a success you make it past sight. Meeting the threshold is not a success, but it is not a failure. You will have to make another roll to get past at a higher threshold or an increased Perceive score.

> [!ability-essence-type]+ **Assist** | *{All Attributes}*
> ***Provide help with an Ability that has not resolved yet.*** 
> 
> Choose a Trait and make a case for how you provide assistance to the current Ability being used.
> 
> The Runner will either accept or ask for further clarification on whether this would actually provide assistance or potentially hinder the current Ability.
> 
> If the Runner accepts, you are able to add your chosen Trait to the total score for that Ability.
> 
> Only one person can be assisting the current Ability. Too Many Cooks, y'know?

> [!ability-essence-type] **Incant** | *{Psyche, Influence, Soul}*
> ***Create and apply a simple magical effect.***
> 
> {More coming soon for this ability, but think of Prestidigitation, Thaumaturgy and other such D&D Cantrips all in one.}
> 