---
title: 2.3 Choice Ability List
draft: false
tags:
---
These abilities are the non-standard things characters will be able to do that fit with the choices you've made for them. 

The attributes listed within each ability are the suggested attributes for using these abilities, but with a sufficient argument, others can be used.

Abilities will not be based on level, all abilities will be available to choose, but certain AP costs may make them prohibitively expensive based on their power.

Every ability on this list will cost something to use as well as require available actions, but there may be other ways of using these abilities without expending certain Resources.

---

> [!ability-social-type]+ **Command** | *{Influence}*
>**Reach** | *Earshot* - 10 Moves
>
>**Cost** | 1 AP
>
>(Requirement | Language Understanding)
>
>***Force an enemy to comply with a short request, demand or statement.***
>
>Make a contested roll with your total Influence vs. an enemy's total Psyche, as a contest or threshold, and on a success the target must comply up until the point of taking an action that would cause damage.
>
>Examples: "Drop your sword!" "Run away!" "Eat that melon!"

> [!ability-buff-type]+ **Heal** | *{Psyche, Soul}*
> 
>**Reach** | *Discernible View* - 10 Moves
>
>**Cost** | 2 AP
>
>***Provide health to someone who currently has been damaged or injured.***
>
>The amount of healing given is based on the Main Trait chosen and the associated benefits from items.
>
> - **Acuity**: Restore health equal to Acuity score and provide +2 to target's next Attack.
> - **Fortitude**: Restore health equal to Fortitude score and remove a status effect from the person healed.
> - **Rend**: Restore health equal to Rend score, remove +1 health from up to 3 enemies in melee of target and provide that total as health as well.
> - **Will**: Restore health equal to Will score and provide +2 to targets next Defend.

> [!ability-fate-type]+ **Doom** | *{Soul}*
> 
>**Reach** | *Discernible View* - 10 Moves
>
>**Cost** | 3 AP
>
>(Usable once per day)
>
>***Cause an impending action to fail, with harmful consequences for the target.***
>
>Make a contested roll with your selected Trait/s vs. your target's total Soul, either as a contest or threshold, and on a success cause the targets next ability to fail and backfire.
>
> - **Rend**: Target takes all effects, damage or loses all benefit of next ability used, and takes a point of Vulnerability, where on the next successful attack, the target takes double damage.
> - **Will**: Target takes all effects, damage or loses all benefit of next ability used, and takes a point of Disruption, where on a further ability the target wishes to use, they have -5 to the total score.

> [!ability-mental-type]+ **Navigate** | *{Psyche, Soul}*
>**Cost** | 1 AP or Focus for 30 mins
>
>***Chart and plot a course for your travel based on maps, stars or prior exploration.***
>
>Make a roll of your total selected attribute and beat the threshold set by the Runner.

> [!ability-essence-type]+ **Divine** | *{Soul}*
> **Cost** | 3 AP or Focus for 1 hour
> 
> (Usable once per day)
> 
> ***Ask a question of import and receive an answer.***
> 
> Make a roll with your total Soul vs. the selected Threshold, and on a success receive an answer of some kind towards your question.

> [!ability-mental-type]+ **Translate** | *{Psyche}*
>**Cost** | 1 AP or Focus for 30 mins
>
>***Read or Speak the writings of a different language that isn't in common use.***
>
>Make a roll of your total Psyche and beat the threshold set by the Runner.

> [!ability-combat-type]+ **Lacerate** | *{Might, Soul}*
> **Reach** | 5 Moves
> 
> **Cost** | 3 AP, 2 HP
> 
> **Requirement** | A Bladed Weapon {e.g. Sword, Battle-Axe, Dagger, Halberd}
> 
> ***Tear through your enemies with a cutting wave of bloody force.***
> 
> Make a roll of your selected Trait/s and beat the enemies chosen Contest score.
> 
> On a success, you coat your weapon in your own blood and send a wave of cutting energy from the blade of your weapon. This wave increases it's width by one Move for each Move it travels before hitting an enemy, to a total of 5.
> 
> On impact, the wave deals Double your Trait score in damage, plus any bonuses from your equipment, and applies the Bleeding effect.

> [!ability-essence-type]+ **Summon** | *{Influence, Soul}*
> **Reach** | *Discernible View* - 10 Moves
> 
> **Cost** | See Creature Summoning Cost
> 
> ***Summon a loyal creature to assist you.***
> 
> {new things later}

> [!ability-mental-type] **Enchant**
> 
> {Placeholder}

> [!ability-arcane-type] **Detonate**
> **Reach** | *Discernible View* - 10 Moves
> 
> **Area of Effect** | *Melee* - 2 Moves
> 
> **Cost** | 6 AP
> 
> ***Cause an object within view to explode violently.*** 
> 
> 

> [!ability-arcane-type] **Animate**
> 
> Be our guest...

> [!ability-mental-type] **Fabricate**
> 
> {Steal from D&D}