Keywords are the things you'd use to describe your characters personality and traits.

They're commonly words like Hopeful, Caustic, Athletic.

On your character sheet, you'll create 5 slots for 5 different Keywords. You'll be able to pick the Keywords which closely describe the character you're hoping to create. These Keywords will provide minor stat bonuses to specific Attribute Subtypes, with greater bonuses also having drawbacks. 
Think of a character like Grima Wormtongue from Lord of the Rings. Probably has a decently high Influence/Speech, but considering his nature, not a great Psyche/Fortitude. (He literally is a manipulative, sniveling coward.)
Until the list is complete, the process as of now will be, find an adjective, make your case for it and what Attribute subtypes it'd relate to, and whether it'd also have a greater benefit to one stat with a downside for another.

With that adjective, an example of how that is represented in the character is also needed. A short description of a scenario, either a memory or a hypothetical situation, something to show the personality for the player's sake to remember key traits and to build on them.

Keywords can also be exchanged, either during pivotal moments, level ups or due to feeling less than enthused about the character you have created. If a Keyword isn't feeling right for the character anymore, it doesn't need to stay.

Examples:

**Caustic**: {+2 Influence/Speech, -1 Psyche/Acuity}
'I can be pretty incisive when I want to be... and often when I don't want to be too...'

**Athletic**: {+1 Might}
'"I'm pretty sure I can make that..." "What, why would you do that?" "Why not?" - Viktor and Spar '

**Insightful**: {+1 Psyche/Acuity}
'Figuring out the deacon of our church wasn't actually the deacon anymore... well let's just say I've been wary ever since.'

**Paranoid**: {+2 Psyche/Acuity, -1 Psyche/Fortitude}
'"I swear they're listening to us right now, so be careful what you say. People have gone missing for questioning the happenings around the docks at night. Just... be careful and don't try and contact me again until I reach out to you first." - Castor to Andrade, the night before Andrade disappeared at the docks...'

> [!keyword-soul] **Hopeful**
> **+1 Soul/Will**
> 
> You generally believe in the goodness of the world.
> 
>*'"I get knocked down, but I get up again. You're never gonna keep me down." - Head Arcanist of the Citadel, Archmagi Tubb Thumping'*





Keyword choices will be expanded upon later.



