A character has access to 5 different resources, that make up the whole of what they can do within a day, whether in combat or social encounters.

>They are Actions, Moves, Ability Points, Health and Versatility.

- Actions make up the specific amount of things you can do in a turn.
- Moves are the amount of space you can cover in a turn.
- Ability Points are the capacity to do things that require extra effort, like casting strenuous spells, performing acrobatic battle manoeuvres and other such abilities.
- Health makes up the amount of damage you can take within a day.
- Versatility is the capacity to extend multiple skills into one task.

The amount of each of these resources you have is dependent on your characters level.

At first level, you have 1 action per turn, 5 Moves per turn, 10 Ability Points per day, 3 Versatility and 10 health per day.
Each level up will provide an increase for most of these resources.

Please use the table below for reference on which resources are gained at what level.

>[!tip] **Character Resource Guide**
> 
> | **Level** | **Actions** | **Moves** | **Ability Points** | **Health** | **Versatility** |
> | --------- | :---------: | :-------: | :----------------: | :--------: | :-------------: |
> | **1st**   |      1      |     5     |         10         |     10     |        3        |
> | **2nd**   |             |     6     |         12         |    +1d4    |                 |
> | **3rd**   |      2      |           |         14         |    +1d4    |                 |
> | **4th**   |             |     7     |         16         |    +1d4    |        4        |
> | **5th**   |      3      |           |         18         |    +1d6    |                 |
> | **6th**   |             |     8     |         20         |    +1d6    |                 |
> | **7th**   |      4      |           |         23         |    +1d6    |        5        |
> | **8th**   |             |     9     |         25         |    +1d8    |                 |
> | **9th**   |      5      |           |         28         |    +1d8    |                 |
> | **10th**  |             |    10     |         30         |    +1d8    |        6        |
> All expended resources will be regained fully upon resting for the day.

>*What if you don't want to spend Action Points?*

Certain abilities may allow you to Focus on them rather than spending Action Points.

>[!NOTE] Focus
>***Enter into a state of concentration in order to perform the Ability being used.***
>
>For the duration required of the Ability, put all your attention and effort into the Ability. 
>This must be performed uninterrupted and unbroken by any other actions, otherwise you must start again from the beginning of the timeframe.
>

{Potentially have extra ways for gaining back more points during the day, but leave it for now}


