---
title: 1.1 What is a Character?
draft: false
tags:
---
## *What is a Character?*
___
In the system, a Character is a some Keywords, a selection of Abilities, a few differing pools of Resources and a History that makes those mechanical systems make sense.

In the game, a Character is a Hero. A Villain. A mercenary taking jobs he'd rather not due a debt he owes. An Inventor leaving home to travel the great wild world and finding it less friendly than they'd hoped.

A Character can *be* anything, but what a Character *IS*... is found in the ways in which they *BE*. 

## *Why does this system exist?*
___
For this RPG System, I'm first and foremost attempting to find ways to allow people to create Characters that are easily informed in roleplay, either between Players or within the world created at large.

It started with the Keyword system. 

These were Core descriptors attached to the Character that informed their attitudes and actions, and when the player felt that they had moved that character within a certain direction and found a behaviour or an ideal that made more sense, they could replace that Keyword with a different one that enhanced that behaviour, or change it to an entirely different one all together.

For instance, a Keyword of Innovative could evolve into Hubristic, where you've created new things that have always helped, so therefore clearly you will always create things that are always helpful. 
Never mind the consequences of skipping testing...

Or, Carefree could turn into Reckless, where you've become so Carefree that nothing matters, and the risks you take keep getting bigger.

These Keywords were able to be applied to any Game System as they were just personal notes for how a Character would interact with the world at a certain point in time, and when one no longer felt right, it was sent on it's way to make space for the new one.

Then, the people I was playing with wanted to start using it, and everything ballooned from there.

## *Why should a Character exist in this system?*
___
For me, it's easier to apply this system to allow for easier portrayal of my Character within the game. 

For others who've tested it, it allows for an easier introduction to TTRPG systems and how the math  and crunchiness of them works.

I recommend testing it out, seeing if it works for you and learning what reasons you end up having for why you'd like to make Characters in this system, or if it doesn't work for you.