---
title: 1.2 Character Attributes
draft: false
tags:
---
## What are Character Attributes?

Your Attributes will be the modifiers which make up the game logic of your character.
These Core Attributes are then divided into their Offensive and Defensive Traits.

>Isn't that a lot more numbers to track?

For now, yes. Playtesting is occurring to determine what works better.


> [!NOTE] Core Attributes and Traits
> **Might**:
> - Aggression {Offensive}
> - Tenacity {Defensive}
> 
> **Psyche**:
> - Acuity {Offensive}
> - Fortitude {Defensive}
> 
> **Influence**:
> - Speech {Offensive}
> - Silence {Defensive}
> 
> **Soul**:
> - Rend {Offensive}
> - Will {Defensive}
>   
> **Versatility**

>All Attributes and Traits will be able to be used within all encounter types.

For instance, within combat, you could end up using Might for Melee attacks, and you may use either Trait, Aggression (Offensive) and Tenacity (Defensive), for the attack.

However, the Trait you use will have directly affect the effects of the attack, with the Offensive Trait being used to deal more damage directly, and the defensive Trait being used to inflict more statuses directly. Still, both can potentially do damage and both can potentially inflict statuses.

You may also be able to use Might in social circumstances, to win the approval of strength focused people with your Aggression, or to intimidate based on a lack of visible reaction to certain stimulus with your Tenacity.

You also don't need to, or may not be able to use Might, and may need to use other Attributes and Traits within combat based on your character choices.

> [!tip] So what do they represent?
> 
> - Might deals with the Physical aspects of your character.
> - Psyche deals with the Mental aspects of your character.
> - Influence deals with the Social aspects of your character.
> - Soul deals with the Essence of your character.

These are not hard rules however, you can make the case for an Attribute and its Trait to apply to a different type of circumstance than it has typically been applied to. However, if this is something that becomes very powerful and is used past the point of fairness, it will be revisited to temper it's power somewhat.

And then there's Versatility. Versatility has no Traits, as this is not a fixed Attribute, but rather a pool of points to spend on particularly difficult rolls. You can find more about this in [[1.5 Character Resources]].

On hearing from the Game Runner the Threshold or Contest to meet, you can choose to use a point of Versatility to bolster your roll from any of the other Attributes other than the one you choose for the check. 

> [!tip] 
> i.e. Versatility allows you to add a Trait from another Attribute, but not a second Trait from the same Attribute.

This means if you're choosing to roll Might with Aggression against the enemy's Might with Tenacity and you fear the enemy has high defences, you may choose to add the roll of Influence with Silence, or Soul with Rend, or Psyche with Acuity, but not a second Might Trait.

If you succeed, you regain the Versatility point and are able to spend it again later. If you fail, you lose the point until you are able to take a Rest.

Each character will start with 3 points of Versatility until the point of levelling up, at which point they may consider whether to take certain abilities, gain more strength in their Attributes, or become more Versatile {Playtesting power of versatility as set level ups for now}.

Now, how do you get your Might, Psyche, Influence and Soul?

Well, there's three ways, which you'll also be able to find in [[1.6 Character Creation]].

A level one character can start with:
- 21 Attribute points as a standardized start.
- 6d6 (with 2 rerolls if total under 19) as a randomized start.
- An agreed value with the Game Runner for the campaign.

A minimum of 2 points will be required for each Attribute for now. You'll see why soon.

For instance, you could put 5 into each, having an average across the board. This makes perfectly ordinary characters, they're sort of okay at everything.

However, you can also put 14 points into 1 Attribute and leave the remaining 7 points for the other Attributes, meaning you'll be absolutely fantastic at one and comparatively rubbish at everything else. 

For some characters, this can work. The kindly old preacher who is a fantastic healer, but no one really listens to his sermons, or respects his knowledge due to him being a bit old and doddery, and gets frustrated with the speed of his walk due to his age.

_Now, how do these Attributes become useful in the way of their Traits?_ 

Let's say you put 5 points into Might. You now have to split those into the Offensive and Defensive Traits.

For a character that's blindly angry all the time, you might put 4 points into Aggression and 1 point into Tenacity, using your total of 5. Notice how you can't put all 5 into Aggression?
That's because you must have at least one point in each Trait. 

For reference, an average NPC has a Total Attribute Score of 12. So, you'll be no worse off than the local villagers or your dentist, but you'll overall be much more powerful than them when you start your game.

So why split the attributes? One size fits all didn't feel right for the game being made, with the ability to specify so much, having Offensive and Defensive Traits felt like the right way to go. 

To make certain checks, an ability will be called on from the Free Ability List, with you choosing your specific Trait. 

Sometimes, you will be called on certain abilities based on the whole of an Attribute. Simply add the Traits related to that Attribute as a whole to the check. These Thresholds which call on the whole of an Attribute will not be able to be used with Versatility.




