---
title: 1.4 Character Keywords
draft: false
tags:
---
Keywords are the things you'd use to describe your characters personality and traits.

They're commonly words like Hopeful, Caustic, Athletic.

On your character sheet, you'll create 5 slots for 5 different Keywords. You'll be able to pick the Keywords which closely describe the character you're hoping to create. These Keywords will provide minor stat bonuses to specific Attributes or Traits, with greater bonuses also having drawbacks. 
Think of a character like Grima Wormtongue from Lord of the Rings. Probably has a decently high Influence/Speech, but considering his nature, not a great Psyche/Fortitude. (He literally is a manipulative, sniveling coward.)

Until the list is complete, the process as of now will be, find an adjective, make your case for it and what Attribute or Traits it'd relate to, and whether it'd also have a greater benefit to one stat with a downside for another.

With that adjective, an example of how that is represented in the character is also recommended. A short description of a scenario, either a memory or a hypothetical situation, something to show the personality for the player's sake to remember key traits and to build on them.

Keywords can also be exchanged, either during pivotal moments, level ups or due to feeling less than enthused about the character you have created. If a Keyword isn't feeling right for the character anymore, it doesn't need to stay.

Examples: {This may get turned into its own List at some point}

## Influence Keywords
---
> [!keyword-influence] **Caustic**
> **+2 Influence/Speech**
> 
> **-1 Psyche/Acuity**
> 
>Your words cut deep, sometimes without meaning them to be.
>
>*'I can be pretty incisive when I want to be... and often when I don't want to be too...'*

> [!keyword-influence] **Eloquent**
>**+1 Influence/Speech**
>
>It's so easy for you to speak about the things you care about effectively. 
>
>*"To Speak and to Speak Well, there's a world of difference between the two" - Unknown*

> [!keyword-influence] **Jealous**
> 
> **+2 Influence/Silence**
> 
> **-1 Psyche/Fortitude**
> 
> Sometimes, you want what others have a little too much.
> 
> *"I NEEEEEEED IT"*
## Soul Keywords
---
> [!keyword-soul] **Hopeful**
> **+1 Soul/Will**
> 
> You generally believe in the goodness of the world.
> 
>*'"I get knocked down, but I get up again. You're never gonna keep me down." - Head Arcanist of the Citadel, Archmagi Tubb Thumping'*

> [!keyword-soul] **Wrathful**
> **+2 Soul/Rend**
> 
> **-1 Psyche/Fortitude**
> 
> The very heat of your anger often turns into an inferno you can't control. 
> 
>*"Third one this week. Y'know, it's not because I think what's happening is okay, but someone needs to find this guy before he starts to attack the wrong people."* 


## Might Keywords
---
> [!keyword-might] **Athletic**
> **+1 Might**
> 
> You've trained for this.
> 
> *'"I'm pretty sure I can make that..." "What, why would you do that?" "Why not?" - Viktor and Spar moments before both fell out of a tree...'*

> [!keyword-might] **Aggressive**
> **+2 Might/Aggression**
> 
> **-1 Soul/Will**
> 
> {Placeholder/Does what it says on the tin.....}.
> 
> *{I'll figure something out, it's 4:48am and I forgot to slepe.}*
## Psyche Keywords
---
> [!keyword-psyche] **Insightful**
> **+1 Psyche/Acuity**
> 
> You're able to see past certain veils of understanding.
> 
> *'Figuring out the Deacon of the Citadel wasn't actually alive as he was giving his sermon... well let's just say I've been noticing things aren't quite adding up like they should be anymore.'*

> [!keyword-psyche] **Paranoid**
> **+2 Psyche/Acuity**
> 
> **-1 Psyche/Fortitude**
> 
> The things you're able to put together... people would have a hard time believing the truth about them.
> 
> '"They're listening to us right now, so be careful what you say. People have gone missing for questioning the happenings around the docks at night. Just... be careful and don't try and contact me again until I reach out to you first." - *Castor to Andrade, the night before Andrade disappeared at the docks...'*

> [!keyword-psyche] **Innovative**
> **+1 Psyche/Acuity**
>  
> You look forward to what people will need in the future, and try to create them now.
> 
> *'Welcome to the Citadel, the Bastion of Progress and Invention in our fair state.'*
## Multi Attribute Keywords
---
> [!keyword-multi] **Determined**
> 
> **+1 Soul/Will**
> 
> **+1 Psyche/Fortitude**
> 
> **+1 Might/Tenacity**
> 
> **-2 Influence**
> 
> You do what you want and you don't let anyone get in your way.
> 
> *"Don't stop me now, I'm having such a good time. I'm having a ball!"*

> [!keyword-multi] **Reckless**
> 
> **+1 Might/Aggression**
> 
> **+1 Soul/Will**
> 
> **-1 Psyche/Acuity**
> 
> Your choices are made in the moment, based on what you're feeling, consequences be damned.
> 
> *"How'd he end up here?" "Willow." "...is there anything we can do to help him?" "Yeah.. uh, run."*



Keyword choices will be expanded upon later.



