---
title: 1.5 Character Resources
draft: false
tags:
---
## *Resources of a Character*
___
A character has access to 5 different resources, that make up the whole of what they can do within a day, or within a turn whether in combat or social encounters.

>They are Health, Moves, Actions, Ability Points and Versatility.

- Health makes up the amount of damage you can take within a day.
- Moves are the amount of space you can cover in a turn.
- Actions make up the specific amount of things you can do in a turn.
- Ability Points are the capacity to do things that require extra effort, like casting strenuous spells, performing acrobatic battle manoeuvres and other such abilities.
- Versatility Points are the capacity to extend multiple skills into one task.

The amount of each of these resources you have is dependent on your characters level.

>Please use the table below for reference on which resources are gained at what level.

>[!tip] **Character Resource Guide**
>
> | *Level* | *Health* | *Moves* | *Actions* | *AP* | *VP* |
> | ------- | :------: | :-----: | :-------: | :--: | :--: |
> | ***1st***   |    10    |    5    |     2     |  20  |  3   |
> | ***2nd***   |   +1d4   |    6    |           |  22  |      |
> | ***3rd***   |   +1d4   |         |     3     |  24  |      |
> | ***4th***   |   +1d4   |    7    |           |  27  |  4   |
> | ***5th***   |   +1d6   |         |     4     |  30  |      |
> | ***6th***   |   +1d6   |    8    |           |  33  |      |
> | ***7th***   |   +1d6   |         |     5     |  36  |  5   |
> | ***8th***   |   +1d8   |    9    |           |  40  |      |
> | ***9th***   |   +1d8   |         |     6     |  45  |      |
> | ***10th***  |   +1d8   |   10    |           |  50  |  6   |
> 
> 

## *Health*
___
Health is the representation of your Character's Physical, Mental and Spiritual wellbeing. For now we're keeping this comparatively low, as we want combat to go quicker.

To show, if you roll entirely max rolls, you will have 64hp at Level 10.
{Expand later.}

## *Moves*
___
Moves are how your Character navigates the world and the battlefield. 
{Expand later.}

## *Actions*
___
Actions are how your Character spends their time and focus within Combat.

Using an Action has some suggested uses, such as:
- Use an Ability
- Interact with an Object
- Be held to be used during another players turn.
- Anything else you can justify.

That's right, if you think you can do a thing, you can try it. The Game Runner will adjudicate on how this thing works and if need be, apply restrictions and costs, but... I need content for the system and I will steal your ideas and solidify them into Abilities in future.

## *Ability Points*
___
Ability Points represent your Character's capacity to use their Abilities. For now, things will be pretty simple, you spend the cost of your abilities, and we will potentially add the option to use more points to enhance the Ability being used upon playtesting.

>***What if you don't want to spend Ability Points?***

Certain abilities may allow you to Focus on them rather than spending Ability Points.

>[!tip] Focus
>***Enter into a state of concentration in order to perform the Ability being used.***
>
>For the duration required of the Ability, put all your attention and effort into the Ability. 
>This must be performed uninterrupted and unbroken by any other actions, otherwise you must start again from the beginning of the timeframe.
>

{Potentially have extra ways for gaining back more points during the day, but leave it for now}

## *Versatility* 
___
On hearing from the Game Runner the Threshold or Contest to meet, you can choose to use a point of Versatility to make a second d6 roll from any of the other Attributes, other than the one you chose for that Ability. 
You then add this second d6 roll to the total score of your Ability.

>To use a point of Versatility, you'll need to declare three things.

1. That you are using a point of Versatility before making the roll.
2. Which Trait you are using as the Main Trait of the roll.
3. Which Trait you are using from a different Attribute to assist the Main Trait, and how it assists.

To show, I want to attack an enemy. I choose to use the free Attack ability, and I've seen this particular enemy have a high defense, so I want to knock it off balance. 

Therefore I'll use Aggression for my Main attribute of the attack, but I'll also use Acuity to enable my attack to target the balance of the enemy and find a small gap in their defences. 

Or I'll use Speech to throw them off mentally. Or I'll use Silence to make the enemies perception of me become more intimidating.

However you want to justify it, make a choice for how you enable this Attack to happen and the Runner will do their best to incorporate it.

This means if you're choosing to roll *Might with Aggression* against the enemy's *Might with Tenacity* and you fear the enemy has a great ability to Defend, you may choose to add the roll of *Influence with Silence*, or *Soul with Rend*, or *Psyche with Acuity*, but not a second Might Trait.

If you succeed, you regain the Versatility point and are able to spend it again later. If you fail, you lose the point until you are able to take a Rest.

Each character will start with 3 points of Versatility until the point of levelling up, at which point they may consider whether to take certain abilities, gain more strength in their Attributes, or become more Versatile {Playtesting power of versatility as set level ups for now}.

Using a point of Versatility will allow you to further enhance your characters abilities and characterization, however it doesn't come without risks. 

>On a success, you will keep your point of Versatility to be used again.
>
>If you fail the Versatile Roll, you will lose that point of Versatility for the day.

Spending all your versatility points on failed rolls will put you at risk, as you'll no longer be able to bolster certain decisions with other attributes.