---
title: 4.1 Rolling The Dice
draft: false
tags:
---
## *How does the game generally work?*
___
The Game Runner will create a reasonable Threshold for your success or failure for most situations.

For anything else that gets left up to the fate of the dice, it will be a contested roll of Traits. Meaning for an Attack, your Tenacity of Might vs. your Opponents Fortitude of Psyche in Combat and in Social encounters. 

>*How does a roll occur, and how is a contest resolved?*

Let's say the above occurs, and you roll your Tenacity of Might. Which dice do you use? How many? Is it all of them?

No. We'll be using a custom d6 system, with options to modify rolls being introduced as dev goes on. You roll a d6 and then add the total Attribute, the Trait, and any item bonuses. You also have the option to use a point of versatility, which we'll explain later.

## *An Example Combat Encounter*
___
So, let's say you've put 3 points into Tenacity and 2 points into Aggression. On average, you're a more defensive character. You get attacked on the enemies turn, you roll to defend in the contest, and you add your Tenacity of Might to the roll. 

>You roll a 5 on the d6, and add 3, since that's your Tenacity score, for a total of 8.

>Your enemy rolled a 3, plus 4 due to their higher Aggression score, for a total of 7.

You've won the contest, what happens now? 

The damage you do to the enemy is *ALSO* your Tenacity score. So you've dealt 3 damage to your enemy by just winning the contest. You'll also have some extra benefits from your selected Trait/s, and you may also have extra benefits from your equipped items.

***So what happens if you tie in a Contest?***

For Tiebreakers, unlike Versatility, you will not be rolling a second d6. 

In combat, both the Runner and the Player will decide on a Trait to add to their already rolled Totals. 

On that decision, there will not be any restrictions on the type of Attribute or Trait you can use, except for the Trait you've already decided as the Main Trait. Meaning, if you've made an Attack with Aggression, you won't be able to use Aggression a second time.

You could go with Tenacity and state you're trying to turn the contest back on the enemy by feinting, or taking advantage of the environment, or allowing the enemy attack to slip past your guard in a way that keeps you safe. 

The Runner will state their new Trait first, and then the Player will be able to make a decision based on that.

On adding that, if it's still a tie, you'll continue until someone loses, but the damage will still be based on the original Main Trait used.

## *What happens in Social encounters?*
___
All of the above is the same in Social circumstances, however the DM might sometimes create a Threshold for you beat. 

The Threshold will be based on the description of the scenario, the environment and the difficulty of the task you are trying to complete.

For instance, if you're trying to hide in a crowd during a festival, a lower Threshold may apply.

However if you're trying to shoot an apple off of someone's head, while blindfolded, upside down and being spun a bunch of times, may require a higher Threshold.

***What if you tie on a Threshold?***

Meeting the Threshold will require the same thing, if the player wishes to continue the action. 

You will add an extra Trait to your roll, but the Runner will increase the Threshold to show the heightened risk of continuing the action.

However, if you meet the Threshold and don't wish to continue the action, you can simply walk away from it without repercussions, if the situation allows for it.

## *Versatile Rolls*
___
When you're asked to use an Ability, you can choose to use a point of Versatility to enhance the roll you make for that ability, before you roll. You can find more in-depth knowledge in [[1.5 Character Resources]]

> [!tip] 
> i.e. Versatility allows you to add a Trait Roll from another Attribute, but not a second Trait from the same Attribute.




