---
title: 4.3 Running Combat
draft: false
tags:
---
Combat is very simple for this game. All of the basic rules required will be provided below.
## *Turn Order*
___
At the top of each day in game, the Players will roll a d20 and tell the Runner the result of that roll, as well as any benefits from Traits or Equipment. The Runner will keep that information until the next encounter that requires a Turn Order to resolve it happens.
On such an encounter, like an ambush being sprung or a fight breaking out, the Turn Order will go from highest total to lowest total, with the enemy side slotting in between. 

On any ties between players, they can either decide between them who will go first or if they both want to go first, the Runner will call for another roll, game of chance or coin flip to decide.

Players will take their turns and then be prepared to be called upon for any actions required of them on other players/enemies turns.

## *Options for your Turn*
___
As you'll have a set amount of Actions on your turn, and a set amount of Moves, that will make up what you can do on your turn.
You'll be able to use Abilities on your Actions, as well as when called upon for Actions against you.

You may also be able to interact with the environment, talk to people within combat, and create new options that we haven't considered.

Essentially nothing is off the table, yet.

## *Breaking Ties*
___















## *Damage and Consequences (Death of a Character)*
___
Taking and healing damage will be pretty easy to do, succeeding on damaging Abilities will deal damage, successfully fending off attacks will prevent damage. You also have some healing abilities available too.

*What happens when you have no health left?*

You will enter a state of **Peril**.

> [!danger] Peril
> ***You feel the ticking hand of your fate, and know, you are about to die.***
> 
> Being in a state of Peril causes three effects.
> 1. Your Moves are reduced by 5, to a minimum of 1.
> 2. Your Ability Point costs are doubled.
> 3. You are mortally wounded, and will die in 3 Turns.
>    
>To escape this state of Peril, you must either be Aided, Healed or take an action that will give you Health back in some way.
>
>While you are in a state of Peril, any damage you receive will accelerate your fate, reducing the amount of Turns you have until you die.
>
>If you fail to escape this state of Peril, you die.

However, this does not mean you Character's story has to be over. 

You may find yourself being offered a deal by a powerful entity, offered the grace of a benevolent, or maybe not so benevolent deity, or clawing your way out of your own shallow grave. 
As such, you could have new Keywords, new Abilities or a basically revamped character after working out how the Character moves forward with your Runner.

Or maybe it is the end of that Character, and you roll a new one.









